Every child knows about cocoons. They’re one of the first things we learn about the natural world. What the ABCs are to language, cocoons are to biology. They introduce us to the wonder of metamorphosis: A little blobby squirmy thing disappears into a sac and emerges as a flamboyant colorful flappy thing. Magic! In fact, that is exactly how we tend to learn about it — as one of nature’s great magic tricks, if not inexplicable then largely unexplained. The emphasis always seems to be on the before and the after, never the during.
Lately, I have found myself wondering — as I sit here hunched inside my dark house, for infinity weeks, hardly moving, wearing the same green sweatshirt while eating the same four snacks — about cocoons. I don’t really care anymore what goes in or what comes out; those are questions for different times, for ancient pasts and distant futures. I’m interested in precisely the part of the story that tends to be skipped: the confinement, the waiting, the darkness, the change.
What is it actually like inside a cocoon? Is it cozy and peaceful? Or cramped and dim? Is the bug’s stay voluntary, involuntary or something in between? And what really happens during that seemingly magical change? Is it inspiring and wondrous? Or is it unpleasant and grim? What did I not learn in kindergarten?
It turns out that the inside of a cocoon is — at least by outside-of-a-cocoon standards — pretty bleak. Terrible things happen in there: a campaign of grisly desolation that would put most horror movies to shame. What a caterpillar is doing, in its self--imposed quarantine, is basically digesting itself. It is using enzymes to reduce its body to goo, turning itself into a soup of ex-caterpillar — a nearly formless sludge oozing around a couple of leftover essential organs (tracheal tubes, gut).
Only after this near-total self-annihilation can the new growth begin. Inside that gruesome mush are special clusters of cells called ‘‘imaginal discs,’’ which sounds like something from a Disney movie but which I have been assured is actual biology. Imaginal discs are basically the seeds of crucial butterfly structures: eyes, wings, genitalia and so on. These parts gorge themselves on the protein of the deconstructed caterpillar, growing exponentially, taking form, becoming real. That’s how you get a butterfly: out of the horrid meltdown of a modest caterpillar.
The caterpillar I know best was created, out of scraps of painted paper, by a man who grew up in Nazi Germany: Eric Carle. ‘‘The Very Hungry Caterpillar’’ is a small, eccentric masterpiece — a children’s book, yes, but also a formative exploration of the complex nature of change. Like many children, I read the book so many times that it blended into my psyche as a kind of background color. Years later, I read it again so many times with my own children that it blended into their psyches too, and back into my own again, this time in a deeper color.
Recently, when I reread ‘‘The Very Hungry Caterpillar’’ alone, in quarantine, it felt less like reading than remembering. And yet I was also slightly surprised. Carle’s caterpillar is, of course, more than just a caterpillar; it is a classic existentialist antihero — a lonely creature of pure need, guided by only its own ravenousness, skirting the knife’s edge between self-destruction and growth. What surprised me this time was that so little of the book is devoted to that final act of transformation — the magic change we are always taught to anticipate. Mainly, the book is a catalog of eating. Ridiculous, ceaseless, maniacal, necessary but also unwise eating.
Things start out fine. The caterpillar tunnels through one food after another: an apple on Monday, two pears on Tuesday, three plums on Wednesday and so forth. He always leaves a little hole in his wake, a literal hole in the book’s pages — his hunger is so powerful that it begins to destroy the very story of his hunger. By Saturday, the caterpillar has abandoned all sense and started bingeing on junk food: a piece of chocolate cake, an ice cream cone, a pickle, a slice of cherry pie, a cupcake — the kind of caloric intake, surely, that will not help an insect with its ultimate long-term goals. Sure enough, the caterpillar ends up curled at the bottom of the page with a stomachache, eyes squished and drooping, mouth compressed to a miserable line.



Material for our work surrounds us at every turn. It woven into conversations, nature, chance, encounters and existing works of art. When looking for a solution to a creative problem, pay close attention to what's happening around you. Look for clues pointing to new methods or ways to further develop current ideas. A writer may be in a coffee shop working on the scene and unsure where the character is going to see next. A phrase might be overheard in the chatter from another table that provides a direct answer, or at least a glimpse of a possible direction. We receive these types of messages all the time if we remain open to them. We might read a book and find a leaping off the page or watch a movie and notice a line that loses to pause and rewind. Sometimes it be exact answer we've been looking for, or an echo of an idea that keeps repeating in other places, begging for more attention or affirming the path we're on. These transmissions are subtle they are ever present, but they are easy to miss. If we aren't looking for clues, they'll pass by without us ever knowing. Notice connections, and consider where they lead. When something out of the ordinary happens ask yourself why. What's the message? What could be the greater meaning? This process isn't a science we can't control clues will them to be revealed. Sometimes it helps to have a strong intention to find a specific answer or confirm particular path. Other times letting go of that intention all together can help you find your way. An integral part of the hardest work is deciphering these signals. The more open you are, the more clues you'll find and the less effort you need to exert. You may be able to think less and begin to rely on answers arising within you. You might imagine that the outside world is a conveyor belt with a stream of small packages on it always going by. The first step is to notice the conveyor belt is there, and then anytime you want, you can pick up one of those packages, unwrap it, and see what's inside. A helpful exercise might be opening a book to a random page and reading the first line your eyes find. See how it's written there applies to your situation. Any relevance in pairs might be by chance, but you can allow for the possibility that chance is not all that play. When my appendix burst the doctor, who diagnosed it insisted I go to the hospital immediately and have it removed. I was told that there were no other options. I found myself in the nearby bookstore. Standing out on the table in front of me was a new book by Dr. Andrew while. I picked it up and let it fall open. The first passage my eyes went to. It said if a doctor wants to remove a part of your body and they tell you it has no function, don't believe this. The information I needed was made available to me in that moment and I still have my appendix. When clues present themselves, it can sometimes feel like the delicate mechanism of a clock at work as if the universe is nudging you with a little reminders that it's on your side and wants to provide everything you need to complete your mission. Look for what you notice, but no one else sees. 